packages/integrations/agentskills-agentframework/README.md, before:

# agentskills-agentframework

[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/agentskills-agentframework)](https://pypi.org/project/agentskills-agentframework/)
[![Python 3.12+](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/agentskills-agentframework)](https://pypi.org/project/agentskills-agentframework/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/pratikxpanda/agentskills-sdk/blob/main/LICENSE)

> Microsoft Agent Framework integration for the [Agent Skills SDK](../../../README.md) — turn a skill registry into Agent Framework tools.

Generates a set of [Microsoft Agent Framework](https://pypi.org/project/agent-framework/) `FunctionTool` instances from a `SkillRegistry`, ready to be passed to any Agent Framework agent.

## Installation

```bash
pip install agentskills-agentframework
```

Requires Python 3.12+. Installs `agentskills-core` and `agent-framework` as dependencies.

## Usage

```python
from agentskills_core import SkillRegistry
from agentskills_fs import LocalFileSystemSkillProvider
from agentskills_agentframework import get_tools, get_tools_usage_instructions

# Set up registry
provider = LocalFileSystemSkillProvider(Path("./skills"))
registry = SkillRegistry()
await registry.register("incident-response", provider)

# Build tools + system prompt
tools = get_tools(registry)
catalog = await registry.get_skills_catalog(format="xml")
instructions = get_tools_usage_instructions()
system_prompt = f"{catalog}\n\n{instructions}"
```

Pass `tools` to your Agent Framework agent and inject `system_prompt` into the `instructions`. The catalog tells the agent *what* skills exist; the usage instructions tell it *how* to use the tools.

## Generated Tools

| Tool | Parameters | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `get_skill_metadata` | `skill_id` | Get structured metadata (name, description, etc.) |
| `get_skill_body` | `skill_id` | Load the full markdown instructions |
| `get_skill_reference` | `skill_id`, `name` | Read a reference document |
| `get_skill_script` | `skill_id`, `name` | Read a script |
| `get_skill_asset` | `skill_id`, `name` | Read an asset |

All tools are async-compatible (`FunctionTool` with `@tool` decorator).

## API

### `get_tools(registry: SkillRegistry) -> list[FunctionTool]`

Returns a list of Agent Framework function tools bound to the given registry.

### `get_tools_usage_instructions() -> str`

Returns a markdown string explaining the progressive-disclosure workflow — read metadata, then body, then fetch resources on demand. Designed for system-prompt injection alongside the skill catalog.

## Example

See [examples/agent-framework/](../../../examples/agent-framework/) for full working demos.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

docs: documentation overhaul, security hardening, and test improvements
Documentation
- Add SECURITY.md (vulnerability reporting, threat model, security controls)
- Add CONTRIBUTING.md (PR process, code style, commit conventions)
- Add SKILLS-DIRECTORY.md (curated skill repositories and resources)
- Add security sections to all 6 package READMEs
- Expand root README: MCP CLI server docs, custom provider examples
- Deduplicate CONTRIBUTING.md and DEVELOPMENT.md content
- Remove stale SECURITY-PLAN.md and agentskills-mcp ghost package
- Remove hardcoded version tags from DEVELOPMENT.md

Tests
- Add ~60 new tests across all packages (boundary, edge cases, parametrized, CLI)
- Fix unawaited coroutine warnings in MCP server tests
- 265 passing, 0 failures

CI/CD
- Add Dependabot configuration for pip and GitHub Actions
- Add CodeQL workflow for static security analysis
- Add pip-audit to lint job

packages/integrations/agentskills-agentframework/README.md, after:

# agentskills-agentframework

[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/agentskills-agentframework)](https://pypi.org/project/agentskills-agentframework/)
[![Python 3.12+](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/agentskills-agentframework)](https://pypi.org/project/agentskills-agentframework/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/pratikxpanda/agentskills-sdk/blob/main/LICENSE)

> Microsoft Agent Framework integration for the [Agent Skills SDK](../../../README.md) — turn a skill registry into Agent Framework tools.

Generates a set of [Microsoft Agent Framework](https://pypi.org/project/agent-framework/) `FunctionTool` instances from a `SkillRegistry`, ready to be passed to any Agent Framework agent.

## Installation

```bash
pip install agentskills-agentframework
```

Requires Python 3.12+. Installs `agentskills-core` and `agent-framework` as dependencies.

> **Note:** `agent-framework` is currently a pre-release dependency (`>=1.0.0b1`). The constraint will be updated once a stable release is published.

## Usage

```python
from agentskills_core import SkillRegistry
from agentskills_fs import LocalFileSystemSkillProvider
from agentskills_agentframework import get_tools, get_tools_usage_instructions

# Set up registry
provider = LocalFileSystemSkillProvider(Path("./skills"))
registry = SkillRegistry()
await registry.register("incident-response", provider)

# Build tools + system prompt
tools = get_tools(registry)
catalog = await registry.get_skills_catalog(format="xml")
instructions = get_tools_usage_instructions()
system_prompt = f"{catalog}\n\n{instructions}"
```

Pass `tools` to your Agent Framework agent and inject `system_prompt` into the `instructions`. The catalog tells the agent *what* skills exist; the usage instructions tell it *how* to use the tools.

## Generated Tools

| Tool | Parameters | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `get_skill_metadata` | `skill_id` | Get structured metadata (name, description, etc.) |
| `get_skill_body` | `skill_id` | Load the full markdown instructions |
| `get_skill_reference` | `skill_id`, `name` | Read a reference document |
| `get_skill_script` | `skill_id`, `name` | Read a script |
| `get_skill_asset` | `skill_id`, `name` | Read an asset |

All tools are async-compatible (`FunctionTool` with `@tool` decorator).

## API

### `get_tools(registry: SkillRegistry) -> list[FunctionTool]`

Returns a list of Agent Framework function tools bound to the given registry.

### `get_tools_usage_instructions() -> str`

Returns a markdown string explaining the progressive-disclosure workflow — read metadata, then body, then fetch resources on demand. Designed for system-prompt injection alongside the skill catalog.

## Example

See [examples/agent-framework/](../../../examples/agent-framework/) for full working demos.

## Error Handling

| Scenario | Exception |
| --- | --- |
| Skill not found in registry | `SkillNotFoundError` |
| Resource not found in skill | `ResourceNotFoundError` |
| Provider errors (HTTP, filesystem) | `AgentSkillsError` |

All exceptions inherit from `AgentSkillsError` (from `agentskills-core`).

> **Note:** Binary content (scripts, assets, references) is decoded as UTF-8 with `errors="replace"`. Non-decodable bytes are replaced with the Unicode replacement character (�).

## License

MIT
